[THEME MUSIC]
>>From Dallas, Texas, the flash,
apparently official-- President
Kennedy died at 1:00 PM
Central Standard Time,
2 o'clock Eastern Standard Time.
some 38 minutes ago.
Vice President Johnson has
left the hospital in Dallas,
but we do not know to
where he has proceeded.
Presumably, he will be taking
the oath of office shortly
and become the 36th president
of the United States.
>>GEORGE NOORY: I
was 13 years old when
that happened, when I saw
Walter Cronkite on CBS News so
emotional.
In my history in
broadcasting, it
was the only time that I've seen
Walter Cronkite that emotional.
In a moment, you will
find out a little bit more
about the JFK assassination
with Lamar Waldron,
right here on "Beyond Belief."
>>Lamar Waldron has
spent decades unraveling
one of the most fascinating
conspiracies of all time--
the assassination of JFK.
He and co-author Thom Hartmann
have earned widespread praise
for their meticulous research in
the book "Ultimate Sacrifice."
Their follow-up work,
"Legacy of Secrecy"
is under development
as a feature film.
They found evidence
establishing plans
for a coup in Cuba
and Mafia connections
to the killing of Kennedy.
Lamar discusses JFK and the
long shadow the assassination
has, today on "Beyond Belief."
>>NOORY: And welcome
back to "Beyond Belief."
Lamar, thank you for joining us.
Really appreciate it.
>>LAMAR WALDRON: Great
to be with you, George.
>>NOORY: Your work here,
"The Hidden History
of the JFK Assassination"
is absolutely riveting.
There were a lot
of books written
about the JFK
assassination, but you
seem to put it all together.
>>WALDRON: Well, this
book was basically
about trying to tie
everything together
in a book that was
less than 900 pages.
>>NOORY: Like that.
>>WALDRON: Well, because
my first two books,
"Ultimate Sacrifice"
and "Legacy of Secrecy"
were both over 900 pages.
And each had 2,000 end notes.
But I felt like I needed to
write a book that just really
laid out the basic,
exciting story
and didn't get bogged down with
a lot of incredible detail,
which is useful for historians
and JFK researchers,
but that the general public
might have trouble following.
So this book really
just lays out,
here's who killed JFK,
here's why they did it,
here's how they
did it, and here's
how they got away
with it and why
the cover-up didn't
just start then
but is continuing to this day.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
How old were you when
JFK was assassinated?
>>WALDRON: I believe
I was nine years old.
And I was sitting in
a school classroom,
and they came in and talked,
and we were just all kind
of stunned.
Because JFK to a 9-year-old
in the early '60s--
>>NOORY: You don't get it.
>>WALDRON: Well, I
didn't fully grasp
when the assassination
was, but he
was the combination of
the most famous movie
star and the biggest
superhero on the planet.
Because he was on
TV all the time.
He was on the cover
of every magazine
with his beautiful wife.
And so we just-- it was Camelot.
And how could this happen?
It was shocking.
And then I was playing
hooky from church
a couple of days later
on Sunday morning,
pretending to be--
I had a little cold,
but I pretended it
was a lot worse,
first time my parents had
ever let me stay home alone.
And I was watching
cartoons, which
was the whole reason
I wanted to stay home
from church that morning.
And suddenly the news breaks in.
And I'm nine years old, home
alone for the first time,
parents were going to come
back quick because I'm there
by myself.
But cartoons, cuts
into the news,
they're showing the transfer.
And then you see this
guy come out of the crowd
and shoot Oswald.
And obviously the
newscasters were all shocked.
And that was very
traumatic to me.
But I really didn't
have any more interest
in the assassination
than anyone else
until around the 25th
anniversary in 1988.
I figured there are experts,
there are historians,
there are investigators
looking into all this.
They've got it figured out.
For the 25th anniversary, my
sometimes-collaborator Tom
Hartmann and I just
started to dig in,
first thinking we write
a historical novel,
and then many,
many years later--
I've been doing this
full time [INAUDIBLE].
>>NOORY: You haven't stopped.
>>WALDRON: Well, you can't
stop, because there are so
many files that
have been released,
but a lot of the best ones
are still kept secret.
And my mission in life now is to
get all of those files released
while I can still enjoy
them, but certainly
so that other people
can so the government
doesn't keep making the same
mistakes decade after decade,
year after year.
>>NOORY: I was 13 years old.
I was an English
class, Ms. Leonard,
when she came in crying,
telling us about that.
And we at 13 did
not quite apprehend
and grasp the
complexity of all this.
I found her last year,
Lamar, on Facebook.
And after all these years,
I had to ask her what
that moment was like for her.
And she remembered it.
She remembered it.
And she didn't remember that
we were in class with her
at that specific time, but
she remembered the episode
and what happened.
And this country has
never been the same
since that tragedy occurred.
And I-- as you have found out
subsequently, it was a coup.
It was a plan to get rid of a
president for various reasons,
which we'll get into.
But this was the first time
that this country was literally
taken over.
And they decided, and they
went for it, didn't they?
>>WALDRON: They did.
And other countries
have gone through this.
They did it in other
countries before.
But yeah, this was--
>>NOORY: Some of them
initiated by us, by the way.
>>WALDRON: Well,
that's exactly right.
And then other people
would assassinate
the people we put into power.
And I do remember a
former Harvard classmate
of Kennedy, Bernard
Fensterwald, who was later
a Senate investigator who
founded a very important center
in Washington with James Lesar
the Assassination Records
and Research Center.
He said it's really
scary when you
look at how many American
elections have been decided
since JFK at the end
of the barrel of a gun,
that if JFK hadn't been
killed, the '64 election would
have been different.
If Nixon hadn't
committed treason in '68
to prolong the Vietnam
War, Hubert Humphrey
might have been elected
with the Iranian hostages
and that situation.
So it is kind of scary--
and then Gerald Ford even
being alive to run after
escaping two assassination
attempts.
So we like to think of
America as a stable democracy,
but until we get
all the facts out
and all the documents out,
we don't have all the facts.
And things could happen again.
And they keep on happening.
>>NOORY: Well, Kennedy
was a very strange person.
His father, of
course, as you know,
pushed him and influenced
him after brother Joe
died in World War II.
That's the one that
father Joe wanted
to push into politics
and the presidency.
He then had to fall
down to brother John,
JFK, when Joseph got killed.
But Joseph Kennedy
did everything he
could to get his son elected.
He was a congressman,
was a senator.
And Kennedy used his
influence with the Mob
and with Prohibition to
generate a lot of money
that he used as an
influence for Kennedy.
But they bought that
election in 1960.
>>WALDRON: Well, now, we
do have to be careful.
Because I wound
up, oddly enough,
while I've written three JFK
books, I did a lot of research
from my Nixon book, "The
Hidden History of Watergate,"
on the '60 election
specifically.
And I was very
surprised to find out
that several things that a
lot of people believe really
don't bear out once
you dig deep into them.
Because the Mafia,
as you just said,
they like to claim credit
for electing JFK in 1960.
However, that's what
the Mafia claims.
The Mafia's relationship with
Joe Kennedy was very complex.
>>NOORY: It was a love-hate.
>>WALDRON: It was a
love-hate, because he
had the respect and the access
to normal business and society
channels that the
Mafia didn't have.
So it was totally a love-hate.
And Joe Kennedy was essentially
the Bill Gates of his time.
So as I found out,
sure, the Chicago Mafia
claimed they carried
Illinois for JFK.
But when political scientists
looked at the actual vote
tallies, and as
one of them said,
the fact that the Democrats
in Chicago would need Mafia
help to carry Chicago
overwhelmingly when you already
have the mayor in your pocket--
>>NOORY: It was probably
going to happen anyway, right?
>>WALDRON: Right, because Mayor
Daley, super powerful-- he
was big for JFK.
So the Mafia actually
did not-- not only
did they not help
JFK get elected,
they had given tons of
money and their support--
and we're going to
try to assassinate
Castro-- for Richard Nixon.
Because it was in the '50s
when the Mafia basically
got to run wild under
the Nixon-Eisenhower
administration.
Eisenhower had heart
trouble, so he even
had to leave things to Nixon,
vice president, for a while.
J. Edgar Hoover was saying
the Mafia didn't even exist.
The Mafia ran wild in
America, ran wild in Cuba.
And it was only John
and Robert Kennedy
who went after the Mafia
in the Senate hearings
where were Senator John
F. Kennedy and his council
brother Bobby, they would
drag up Carlos Marcello
and Sam Giancana.
>>NOORY: And Kennedy had a
relationship with the Mob.
I mean, he was having
sexual relations--
>>WALDRON: Well, let's
clarify that, George.
>>NOORY: --with
Giancana's girlfriend.
>>WALDRON: Again, we have to
draw distinction between having
relations with Sam
Giancana's girlfriend, which
was a set-up, by
the way-- I mean,
Sam Giancana's man in
Hollywood and Vegas,
big role in the
assassination, was
Johnny Roselli, suave
guy, dapper Mafia don
sort of guy, ladies' man.
The list of women Johnny
Roselli had been with starts
with Marilyn Monroe
and goes on from there.
And it was actually a
set-up, because they
knew the kind of woman who
would appeal to John F. Kennedy.
>>NOORY: That would be a woman
who had two arms and two legs.
>>WALDRON: Well,
no, she actually--
>>NOORY: He was
after everything.
>>WALDRON: She actually
had a lot of Jackie
about her, Judith
Campbell Exner,
for some of your listeners
who may not know.
And so that was actually
kind of a set-up.
So JFK had a relationship
with Marilyn Monroe
and Judy Campbell, totally.
But JFK went after the mafia,
I think, for two big reasons.
One was to make a
name for himself.
>>NOORY: Right.
And Bobby pushed it.
>>WALDRON: And Bobby pushed it.
The other was, I mean, they were
well aware of all of the rumors
about their father
and the Mafia.
So this was one way they
had to counter those rumors.
Look, we're going to
go after the Mafia.
And I've got to
give credit to JFK,
because it wasn't just an
empty campaign promise.
Once he was elected and he
appointed his brother Bobby
Kennedy attorney general,
they went after the Mafia,
specifically the Mob heads
of Chicago, Tampa, and New
Orleans and Texas.
>>NOORY: And Hoffa.
>>WALDRON: And
Hoffa-- well, Hoffa
was the ally of all
of those people.
>>NOORY: I knew
Hoffa, by the way.
>>WALDRON: That's interesting.
>>NOORY: We'll get into that.
>>WALDRON: So they actually
went after these guys
with a ferocity that
America had never seen
and has never seen since.
And the Mafia had a
relationship with Richard Nixon,
with the CIA, with a couple
of JFK's girlfriends for sure.
But JFK and Bobby were dead-set.
They wanted to get rid of the
Mafia in the United States,
and they put tens of millions
of dollars and hundreds of men
and women to try and do that.
>>NOORY: Leading up to the
assassination on November 22,
1963, prior to Kennedy being
elected under the Eisenhower
administration, they
put the Bay of Pigs
plan together to try to do that.
And the assassination of Fidel
Castro, as you illustrated.
>>WALDRON: Very important, the
assassination of Fidel Castro.
>>NOORY: All of those, too,
they never seemed to give up.
Kennedy gets word
about the Bay of Pigs
and literally uses
that in debates
to destroy Nixon, who
can't admit in the debates
that something's going on.
So Kennedy looks like
the presidential hero.
I'm going into Cuba,
we're going to do this,
and we need to do
something like that.
Bottom line is
Kennedy takes office,
and the Bay of Pigs situation,
the invasion of Cuba,
collapses, and they blame
Kennedy for not giving them
the air support.
>>WALDRON: I'm so glad
you brought that up,
because that's what I had always
believed, until I spent months
digging into just that very
thing for "The Hidden History
of Watergate."
And there was no
Bay of Pigs Invasion
planned at the time of the
presidential debates in 1960.
There wasn't.
What there was
was Richard Nixon.
The election would be
in November of '60.
In August of '60, Richard Nixon
ordered the Mafia to amp up
their assassination attempts
against Fidel Castro that had
been going on since '59 and to
basically use the Mafia to kill
Fidel Castro, gangland style,
before the '60 election,
because he knew that compared
to this young, fresh senator,
if we had American troops
going into Cuba to keep order--
because there was a lot
of American companies,
people interest--
>>NOORY: It would
help his election.
>>WALDRON: Yeah, we would
stick with the experienced vice
president of eight years instead
of this young, untested--
so he ordered that.
So there was no invasion
because there was no need.
I mean, there would be a small
force of maybe 100 people
that would go in to help secure
the government after Fidel
was killed.
But there was no big invasion
until after the election.
The head of the CIA, Allen
Dulles, and his number two
man--
>>NOORY: Who Kennedy fired.
>>WALDRON: Well,
after the Bay of Pigs.
So after the election,
they were like, well,
we can't tell the new
president that we were trying
to help his opponent by hiring
the Mafia to kill Fidel,
so we'll say, well, we're
going to have this invasion.
So after the invasion,
suddenly this 100-man force
grows by 10 or 20
fold and becomes
the Bay of Pigs Invasion.
But as you mentioned, Allen
Dulles, the head of the CIA,
did not tell JFK,
oh, in addition
to this invasion
that can never work,
we're going to kill Fidel.
Because that's
what they thought.
Yeah, 2,000, 3,000,
however many Cuban exiles,
they can never conquer Fidel's
100,000-man army and militia.
But if Fidel and his
brother and Che are dead--
>>NOORY: They could
do whatever they want.
>>WALDRON: Yeah,
then the president
will be forced to
send in the Marines
to help maintain control.
So they kept doing that.
But involved in
those CIA mafia plots
where Johnny Roselli, the
Mafia don of Tampa and much
of Florida, Santo
Trafficante, Jr.
>>NOORY: And Marcello.
>>WALDRON: And Carlos Marcello
of New Orleans and Texas.
In the middle of
all this preparation
to assassinate Fidel that JFK
and Bobby know nothing about,
JFK and Bobby have
Marcello, when
he goes to it to
register as an alien--
because he was born outside
of the United States.
He had a fake Guatemalan
birth certificate.
So he went to register
as a resident alien.
>>NOORY: I think they sent
him back there, didn't they?
We'll get into that.
>>WALDRON: They hustled him
on a plane with his attorney
and dumped him down there.
The country they dumped
him in threw him out.
He winds up-- America's most
powerful godfather winds up
trudging through the jungle
with his attorney in his Gucci
loafers, swearing total--
>>NOORY: He's going to get even.
>>WALDRON: You
can't do this to me.
And he sneaks back in, and he's
going to make good on that.
But what happened was in doing
that, the plot, the CIA mafia
plot to kill Fidel
Castro, got disrupted.
Because Marcello was
out, E. Howard Hunt--
>>NOORY: Well, and Castro was
aware of all these things,
wasn't he?
>>WALDRON: Well, right
before the Bay of Pigs,
he arrested, according to
some estimates, 50,000 people.
Anybody who could possibly
be a threat to him,
he arrested them.
>>NOORY: He got rid of them.
>>WALDRON: So that
couldn't happen.
E. Howard Hunt was
the CIA's main man
for the CIA mafia plots.
He didn't want to see the
more democratically-minded
Cuban exiles in.
So he dropped out, along with
his aide, Bernard Barker, who
was working for Trafficante.
And so the whole CIA Mafia
plot thing didn't happen.
Bay of Pigs failed.
JFK fires the head of the CIA,
but the new head of the CIA
is not told that CIA
official Richard Helms, who
had kind of escaped the
taint of the plot failure,
continues those plots.
>>NOORY: He's
continuing the program.
>>WALDRON: Into '62, into '63--
>>NOORY: On their own.
>>WALDRON: Not
just until the day
that JFK died, but
for months after JFK,
without telling his
own CIA director
or the president
or Robert Kennedy.
>>NOORY: So now let's get us
onto that very fateful day
on November 22, 1963.
So this is the motorcade in
Dallas on that fateful day
in Dealey Plaza.
As you can see, the
motorcade is coming down.
There he is.
Abraham Zapruder,
an elderly man,
is standing there with
his 8-millimeter camera,
capturing what would be
very capturable nowadays
with video smart
phones and everything.
And then he gets shot.
And the nation was just
in horror with that.
If I recall, Lamar, wasn't
it the "Look" magazine story
about the film that got
everybody to know about it?
>>WALDRON: It was
actually "Life" magazine.
>>NOORY: "Life" magazine.
>>WALDRON: And Dan Rather was
the first reporter to see it.
And he reported it.
It's interesting, while
you're showing this,
he reported JFK, because he was,
of course, shot from behind,
was thrown violently
forward, almost
into the seat in front of
him, which, of course, doesn't
happen at all.
That was just Dan Rather.
But the American public,
aside from a few frames
in "Life" magazine
that bought the film
and wouldn't let
anyone else use it,
didn't get to actually see
what we're seeing right now--
>>NOORY: That's the
fatal shot right there.
>>WALDRON: --until
mid 1970s when
Geraldo Rivera put a bootleg
copy on late-night television.
And it wasn't even commonly
seen, really, until the 1980s.
>>NOORY: And I still
have to tell you,
looking at that in
slow motion, to me,
clearly he was shot from
the front in the head.
>>WALDRON: Of course.
Of course.
No doubt at least two
shots came from the front.
JFK's two closest aides in
the limo right behind him,
perfect view, yeah,
they said the first shot
and the last shot
came from the front.
>>NOORY: The Secret
Service was on standby.
There was a scene of a
Secret Service agent walking
alongside, jogging alongside the
limousine, told to stand back.
And he's putting his
hands up in the air,
like, what are
you talking about?
What's going on?
>>WALDRON: And not only Powers
and O'Donnell, the two closest
JFK aides in the
limo behind him,
but one of the Secret Service
agents in the limo behind JFK
also said that at least one
shot came from the front.
There's no doubt that one
shot came from-- probably
at least two came from behind.
One missed the limo entirely.
And there was that back wound
six inches below JFK's collar.
That definitely
came from behind.
So there was at least
two shots from behind.
But the two fatal shots
that hit JFK, clearly both
came from the front, as medical
testimony and evidence and eye
witnesses have
shown conclusively.
>>NOORY: That it was a
triangular shoot, as they say.
>>WALDRON: Well, yeah,
he was right there.
>>NOORY: Was Oswald indeed
a patsy, as he says he was?
>>WALDRON: Of course he was,
and not only a patsy for Dallas.
He was a patsy for
the first two attempts
to kill JFK in Chicago
three weeks before Dallas.
>>NOORY: And there was
one in Florida, right?
>>WALDRON: And in Tampa,
Florida, four days
before Dallas.
Each of those two attempts
had their own patsies.
There was another ex-Marine
in Chicago arrested
the morning of the
planned-- he had just
gotten this troubled ex-Marine.
He had a rifle.
He had a pistol.
He had 3,000 rounds
of ammunition.
He had just gotten a job
at a warehouse overlooking
JFK's motorcade route,
many parallels to Oswald.
They moved to YMCAs
at the same time.
Thomas Vallee was his name.
He was going to be the patsy.
But if something had
happened to Thomas Vallee,
there had already
been an attempt
to leak Oswald to
Chicago, and I'm
sure they would have
gotten Oswald to Chicago
on that Saturday.
But the Secret Service,
including Abraham Bolden,
the first African-American
presidential Secret Service
agent, they had found out
that there was an attempt.
So JFK didn't just
cancel his motorcade
at the last minute,
his press secretary
Pierre Salinger told me, but
he canceled the entire trip
because they knew that
there were at least--
>>NOORY: It was too violent.
>>WALDRON: Well, there were
two assassins at large,
potentially four, and plus
this Vallee, the ex-Marine,
had been arrested.
Now he would be a patsy as well.
Flash head to Tampa, Florida.
Oswald, as we should all
know, had no driver's license
and no car.
I mean, he was
living hand to mouth.
So he couldn't drive.
He had no money
for a plane ticket.
But in Tampa, Florida--
>>NOORY: Was he here, too?
>>WALDRON: Well,
there was a report
that surfaced later from an FBI
informant that he was in Tampa.
The reason was there was a guy
with two dozen similarities
to Oswald, Gilberto Policarpo
Lopez, approximately
the same age, approximately
same physical description,
a Cuban exile in Tampa.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>NOORY: --the picture
of Oswald coming out
of the Mexican embassy?
Remember that picture?
>>WALDRON: It's not that
person, but you'll be surprised.
Gilberto Lopez, just as
Oswald made a strange trip
to the Mexican embassy trying
to get into Cuba two months
before the assassination,
Gilberto Lopez
would make a similar trip
after the assassination.
Gilberto Lopez left his wife
the same time as Oswald,
got involved with
fair play for Cuba
same time as Oswald--
so many parallels.
But again, if anything had
happened to Gilberto Lopez
so he couldn't be
the patsy, somebody
was laying the groundwork.
Oswald is--
>>NOORY: He was
the back-up patsy.
>>WALDRON: Right.
Oswald's whereabouts on
the Sunday before Dallas,
which is the Sunday before
the Tampa attempt as well,
are totally unknown to this day.
And he was probably
being kept on ice
in case they needed
to take him to Tampa.
But as the Tampa chief
of police told me,
and a contemporary
news article bears out,
the Tampa police
and Secret Service
found out about the
assassination attempt
against JFK in Tampa.
But JFK was giving a very
important speech that night
to an ally very high in
the Cuban government,
getting ready to
overthrow Fidel Castro.
So JFK couldn't very well
cancel this motorcade in Tampa,
give that speech in
Florida with words
the CIA had helped
him craft, designed
to reassure the number-three
man in Cuba that he
should overthrow Fidel.
And so JFK went through
with that motorcade.
Jackie was not there--
very, very tense.
But when you look at the
place the assassination
was planned for in Tampa,
or the Floridan Hotel.
It looks like the Texas School
Book Depository, only twice
as big, every window opened,
the hotel was packed.
The chief of police
told me there
was no way we could secure it.
There was a hard left turn just
like in Dallas under the School
Book Depository.
>>NOORY: Which is where
the shot would have been.
>>WALDRON: And in
fact, the shooting--
you could tell
the Floridan Hotel
was one block farther away from
that turn than the School Book
Depository.
But you'll notice the shooting
doesn't start in Dallas
until the limo is pretty far
away from the School Book
Depository in the
exact place it would
have been if the assassination
had occurred in Tampa.
So the assassins had
been practicing first
for Chicago, then
for Tampa, and that's
why they waited--
because you could
have shot JFK when he was taking
that turn under the School Book
Depository.
But that wasn't-- Dallas was
the backup plan for the backup
plan.
It had all been planned--
>>NOORY: Was there
another plan after Dallas
if that didn't succeed?
>>WALDRON: There was
no plan after Dallas,
so it had to succeed.
The coup in Cuba
that JFK was backing
with the head of the Cuban
army was set for December 1,
not long after Dallas
on November 27.
>>NOORY: And that was
called off, obviously.
>>WALDRON: Obviously called off.
And that's the reason for
so much of the secrecy.
So no, it had to
occur in Dallas.
But get this-- so
most people don't
realize that JFK Secret
Service detail went out
drinking in Fort
Worth till 2:00 AM,
4:00 AM, 5:00 AM on the night
before the assassination,
not exactly what you need
to have great reflexes.
>>NOORY: They're all hung over.
>>WALDRON: Well,
not all, but some.
And it was an associate of Jack
Ruby's that ran this place.
Some of Ruby's
strippers came over.
>>NOORY: They all
know everybody.
>>WALDRON: And
so-- but the reason
they all went out
drinking, though--
and I do want to
make this clear,
because I think
most Secret Service
agents try to do a good job.
And they risk they lives.
>>NOORY: I agree with that.
>>WALDRON: And there had been
the big threat in Chicago.
JFK had to cancel not just the
motorcade, but the whole trip.
>>NOORY: But they knew then,
something's going on here.
>>WALDRON: Well, but get this.
So in Tampa, they knew
active shooter, OK?
And I gotta say the lookout
in Tampa, the alert listed
was much closer to Oswald
than first lookout in Dallas.
>>NOORY: Were the
shooters in Tampa the same
that went to Dallas?
>>WALDRON: Yeah, I mean,
they're the same shooters.
So it's one plan, shoot JFK
from a tall building overlooking
that kind of left turn,
in three cities, one plan.
But the Secret Service, there
was no active threat in Dallas.
So after those two
tense situations
in Chicago and Tampa,
they did feel like, OK, we
can kick back and relax.
>>NOORY: Ah, they
let their guard down.
>>WALDRON: And that also told
Marcelo's associates in Dallas,
OK, the fact that they're
going out drinking late
instead of being
super alert means,
OK, finally we can
do-- because it was
their third and last chance.
This had to happen
before December 1,
because it was that
secret coup plan that
was going to force
the government
to cover up so much then and
later and now to prevent World
War III.
>>NOORY: Let me
ask you questions.
Give me yes or no
answers specifically.
Was the Mob involved in
Kennedy's assassination?
>>WALDRON: Definitely.
>>NOORY: The CIA?
>>WALDRON: What we
can say right now is--
>>NOORY: Yes or no?
>>WALDRON: --at a lower level.
So the CIA not at a high level,
but what I would call a medium
level.
>>NOORY: The Secret Service?
>>WALDRON: No.
>>NOORY: Some members
of government--
did they know
about it, like LBJ?
>>WALDRON: No, and later
on I can explain why.
>>NOORY: All right,
Castro-- was he involved?
>>WALDRON: Not at all.
>>NOORY: All right,
so primarily you're
saying it was Mob-driven.
>>WALDRON: And we have to
remember that the three
mobsters who later confessed,
three Mob leaders who later
confessed their roles-- because
there are other confessions,
but the three Mob leaders,
Marcello of Louisiana
and Texas, Trafficante of
Florida, and Johnny Roselli,
the Chicago Mafia's man in LA--
>>NOORY: All dead now.
>>WALDRON: All dead.
But they all confessed, but they
were all CIA assets in the CIA
Mafia plots--
>>NOORY: To kill Castro.
>>WALDRON: So what they
were able to do was use--
so when Jack Ruby meets
with Johnny Roselli in Miami
in October of 1963, the
FBI has to back off,
because the CIA
is like, oh, hey,
Roselli is working for us, so
back off on your surveillance.
>>NOORY: He's one of our guys.
>>WALDRON: And so we have
all this great surveillance
on Johnny Roselli in the fall of
'63, except when he's in Miami.
That's never been released.
And he's meeting with Jack Ruby.
They think it's
about killing Castro,
but no, it's about killing JFK.
So those three Mobsters,
they were all CIA assets,
but they were basically
playing the CIA leaders,
like Richard Helms, the
number-three man in the CIA.
He was the highest guy that even
knew about the CIA Mafia plots
in '63.
JFK CIA director John
McCone, he liked JFK.
He knew nothing about
CIA Mafia plots.
He and his number-two man,
they were out of the loop.
It was Richard Helms who would
later become head of the CIA.
He was keeping all that
from his bosses in the CIA
and from JFK and from Bobby,
because he figured, well,
once Castro is dead, nobody
is going to mind anyway.
And then there were
those lower-level people
in the CIA, three of whom
essentially confessed--
David Morales the head of
operations at the Miami CIA
station.
The largest CIA
station in the world
was not in some foreign country.
It was in Miami.
>>NOORY: In Miami, yeah.
>>WALDRON: And the ruthless
chief of operations
there was a guy named
David Morales, who
was best friends
with Johnny Roselli.
And so Morales was involved
with the CIA Mafia plots,
like his good friend
Johnny Roselli.
But Morales hated JFK
because of the Bay of Pigs.
Again, the Bay of Pigs didn't
fail because of airstrikes.
It failed because Castro
wasn't assassinated by the CIA.
But Morales blamed JFK.
So Morales later on confessed
that he was involved.
E. Howard Hunt, a
name most of your--
>>NOORY: Who apparently
told his son.
Wasn't there a deathbed
confession here
of his involvement?
>>WALDRON: Well, Hunt's
so-called confession
is more troubling.
And that's because he left out
the fact that his chief aide
during Watergate and in the
early '60s and in the CIA Mafia
plot, Bernard Barker,
was a longtime--
>>NOORY: These are all
Watergate people. [LAUGHING]
>>WALDRON: All Watergate people.
Bernard Barker had been
working for the Mafia
since the late 1940s and was
working for Santo Trafficante.
Hunt himself, when the CIA
Mafia plot started in '60,
he had no Mafia background.
He was an expert in overthrowing
foreign governments-- no Mafia
background.
So the CIA said, look,
here's this Bernard Barker.
He's been working with
the Mafia for years.
He's working with
Trafficante already.
Work with him.
So Hunt left that out
of his confession.
He left out the fact that
his best friend, a guy
named Manuel Artime, one of
the leaders of the Bay of Pigs,
who later became
a drug trafficker
for Santo Trafficante--
this is Hunt's best friend.
And Artime also
provided the hush money
for the Watergate burglars.
He was a drug trafficker
for Santo Trafficante.
Hunt in his so-called confession
tried to blame everything,
or a lot, on-- well, he
just named various people,
and he put Frank Sturgis,
real name Frank Fiorini--
>>NOORY: He was
involved in Watergate.
>>WALDRON: Well, but Frank--
I call him Frank Firoini
because that's his real
name, not Frank Sturgis.
Frank Fiorini was also
working for Santo Trafficante.
So we keep coming
back to the fact
that-- so Hunt didn't mention
a word about the Mafia,
even though he helped to
start the CIA Mafia plots.
His assistant and
his best friend
were both totally working
for Santo Trafficante.
So did Hunt have a role?
I have to put a question
mark there right now.
Because he left so much
out of his confession.
Another guy by the name of John
Martino, a CIA asset in '63,
he later confessed as well.
And he also worked
for Trafficante
and was working on
these CIA Mafia plots.
So people now, we all know that
governments and our government
tries to assassinate
foreign leaders.
Hell, we try to do it
with a drone, right?
>>NOORY: They did it during
the Kennedy administration.
>>WALDRON: The general public,
though, they did not really
find that out until 1975.
So a lot of the secrecy
surrounding JFK's murder
was about keeping the fact
that we were-- and even JFK,
he didn't view what the
head of the Cuban army
was going to do to
Fidel as assassination.
He viewed it as a coup attempt
to try to get Cuba back
on the road to democracy that
Castro had taken it away from.
>>NOORY: Or back to the Mob.
Don't forget all
those casinos that
went when they got Batista out.
>>WALDRON: Two important
things to remember-- one--
and I got this from several
of the two dozen people that
worked closely with
John and Robert Kennedy
that Tom and I interviewed--
JFK and Bobby had banned
the Mafia from any
role in their coup plan
and from having any role in
Cuba after the coup happened.
>>NOORY: Hence a reason to
get rid of Kennedy, right?
>>WALDRON: Before the
date that the coup was
supposed to happen,
shortly after Dallas.
I mean, "The New York Times"
the week before JFK was killed,
they ran a big cover
feature, I think
four or five days,
of the US was getting
ready to go into Las Vegas and
run the Mafia out of Las Vegas.
The Mob no longer had Havana.
I mean, they had no
place left to go.
Carlos Marcello
was not a citizen.
He could be deported.
>>NOORY: Well, and
they cleaned up Vegas.
They got them all out.
>>WALDRON: Well,
they eventually did.
>>NOORY: Eventually.
>>WALDRON: And so the Mafia's
back was against the wall.
They had nothing to gain by
letting the coup go forward,
because they couldn't
get back in Cuba.
They had everything to gain
by using the intense secrecy
surrounding this coup plan that
only a dozen people in the US
government really
knew much about.
It was that secret.
But get this-- six
people who worked
for Marcello and
Trafficante, we can document
through quotes, from
printed sources,
knew about that
secret coup plan.
So the coup plan that Congress
has never been officially
told about, six people
working for the Mafia
were able to weasel their
way in and find out,
again because people
like E. Howard Hunt
was working on the coup plan,
unknown to the Kennedys.
He was working on
the same Mafia plots,
and his aide Bernard Barker,
all the time his real loyalty
is to the Mafia.
So he's able to-- so
everything that Hunt knew,
his aide Barker knew.
Everything Barker knew, his real
boss Santo Trafficante knew.
>>NOORY: Do you think
the murder of Jimmy Hoffa
in 1975 had anything
to do with this?
>>WALDRON: Oh, it's
totally, totally connected.
Because remember, that just
took place several weeks
after Sam Giancana
was assassinated.
Remember, the general
public knew nothing
about any US government
assassinating anybody
until '75, early in '75.
President Ford let
something slip.
Daniel Schorr dug into it.
Suddenly there was the
Senate Church Committee.
And there was also a House
committee. [INAUDIBLE].
But the Senate Church Committee
starts investigating this,
and they're calling witnesses,
and they're dragging
Richard Helms up to testify.
And Helms is so mad at one
point he practically tries
to strangle newsman
Daniel Schorr after one
of these hearings, saying you
don't know what you've done,
people are going to get killed.
Because nobody would find
out for decades after that
that the number-three man in
Cuba was still working for us.
But what happened was--
>>NOORY: Now where is that guy?
Is he dead?
>>WALDRON: He didn't
die until 9/11, 2009.
And so that's been
the CIA's excuse
for keeping everything secret.
But what they really
wanted to keep secret
were those CIA mafia plots
that backfired on Kennedy.
So what happens is
Jimmy Hoffa starts
talking to staffers for the
Senate Church Committee,
investigating the
CIA Mafia plots.
And Jimmy Hoffa is
leaking them information.
>>NOORY: Well, he would know.
He was part of them.
>>WALDRON: He was part
of the same Mafia plots.
He had become part in 1959.
And in fact, there
was a big bribe
to him paid by Nixon when
Trafficante, Marcello,
and Roselli got involved
in August of '60.
>>NOORY: Hoffa built Las Vegas.
I mean, his Teamster pension
fund went to the Mob.
>>WALDRON: Exactly.
They built it.
>>NOORY: And they
were out of control.
>>WALDRON: So he
knew all of us stuff.
And he was mad at Nixon
for putting that condition
on his release that he could
not head the Teamsters again.
So he was leaking
information to them.
They got wind
about Sam Giancana,
and then someone that
Sam Giancana knew
was able to go into his house.
And Giancana, your
viewers need to realize,
he had been in exile in
Mexico for many, many years.
He was much too flamboyant.
He was never
actually a godfather.
He was a mob boss,
not a godfather.
He'd had to go into
exile in Mexico for--
>>NOORY: He was a
tough guy in Chicago.
>>WALDRON: Right.
So he had finally come back.
And he was like fixing
dinner late one night,
some sausages I believe.
And he lets--
>>NOORY: [INAUDIBLE]
>>WALDRON: He lets somebody
who he knew and trusted.
>>NOORY: Into his house.
>>WALDRON: And he
is assassinated,
and he's shot several
times around the mouth.
Now, that's the Mafia
sign for don't talk.
So they didn't want
him or anyone else
talking to that Senate
Church Committee.
But then when we get
to the end of July,
one thing I have in the
book, the "History of the JFK
Assassination,"
is sometime prior
to Jimmy Hoffa's disappearance--
>>NOORY: Which is
in July of '75.
>>WALDRON: July of '75,
sometime prior to that--
we don't know exactly whether
it's days, weeks, or a month,
but sometime prior to that,
according to the FBI informant,
according to Marcello himself
talking to an FBI informant,
he had Hoffa brought in a
private plane down to his huge
1,000-plus-acre Churchill
Farms in Louisiana.
Had its own airstrip,
had one house
in the middle of it, alligators.
I mean, you didn't go into
there unless Marcello wanted you
there.
There was no bugging.
There were no wiretaps.
I mean, people could
come and go at leisure
because they had
their own airstrip.
And so he and another mob
boss, Tony Provenzano,
who had also been on the fringe
of the same Mafia plots--
>>NOORY: Who was the guy
Hoffa was supposed to be
meeting when he disappeared.
>>WALDRON: Right.
So Provenzano, Hoffa,
and Marcello meet,
and basically Marcello
tries to convince Hoffa not
to pursue any kind
of court action
to have the
conviction overturned.
>>NOORY: To come back.
>>WALDRON: Come back and
take over the Teamsters.
And Hoffa refuses to back down.
So Provenzano in
private tells Marcello,
we should just go ahead
and kill him here, not
even let him go back.
It appears he was
allowed to go back.
But then he was--
>>NOORY: Then the plan was--
>>WALDRON: He was killed.
I should point out the
last known communication
from Jimmy Hoffa before
his disappearance,
he does say he is going to the
airport near the small town
where he disappeared.
>>NOORY: Bloomfield.
>>WALDRON: So some
people do wonder, well,
did he actually go to the
airport, go to Churchill Farms,
and was he really killed there?
Because-- most of your viewers
will not know because the FBI
won't release the files,
but I have the summary
from the FBI and
the FBI informant.
The FBI did investigate
junkyards in New Orleans
to see if Hoffa--
>>NOORY: He was dumped there?
>>WALDRON: --wound up
being dumped there.
Because Marcello
did own a junkyard
where bodies were disposed of.
>>NOORY: Yeah, we
always thought that he
was crushed somewhere in some
old piece of metal scrap heap,
and he's gone.
>>WALDRON: So could
he still be there?
So yeah, Hoffa's death,
and then and then
Johnny Roselli's murder about
a year after Hoffa shortly
after he had met with
Trafficante-- you gottta
remember, in the
feeding order here,
you got Marcello and
Trafficante at the top,
you got people like Sam Giancana
and Johnny Roselli below that,
and then Hoffa is even below
Marcello and Trafficante.
>>NOORY: Lamar, as we wrap this
incredible story, this weaving
of the assassination of Kennedy,
in your opinion, quite frankly,
why did they kill him?
>>WALDRON: They had no choice.
They had to kill him
before December 1
to use the secret coup
plan, all the secrecy
surrounding that that would
continue for decades to prevent
a thorough investigation
of JFK's murder,
plus they did plant
clues pointing to Fidel,
so people thought it
would be World War
III if it looked like Cuba
or the Russians had done it.
So they were smart
in that regard.
But they had no choice.
Roselli and Marcello
were not even citizens.
Even a small conviction
would get them deported.
Marcello was literally
in federal court
facing Bobby's
federal prosecutor
that I spoke with in the
weeks before JFK's murder.
He had bribed a juror to
ensure his acquittal that day.
But they could put him back
on trial on new charges
a week later.
So they had no choice.
They had to do it.
And killing JFK, it didn't end
the US war against the Mafia,
because as you pointed
out, they eventually
did get the Mafia
out of Las Vegas.
But it put a severe
dent into it.
And frankly, if you
look politically,
as I did for the Watergate
book, most people
would have guessed that Richard
Nixon was going to be president
in the '64 election.
I mean, he had
narrowly lost in '60.
It would be him, and
if not him, someone
like Nelson Rockefeller.
>>NOORY: And Barry Goldwater
ran during that time.
>>WALDRON: Right.
People were shocked that
he was able to get it.
Lyndon Johnson had become
a political nobody.
He had been very
powerful in the '50s.
He was kind of a nobody.
So people were very
surprised in that regard.
But again, Tom and
I, we start out--
we investigate everybody--
Hoover, Hoffa--
>>NOORY: Oh, you've
got all the names.
>>WALDRON: Johnson and
all the-- but again,
Lyndon Johnson, there's the
evidence from Madeleine Brown
that he was supposedly
at a meeting that night.
>>NOORY: But he wasn't upset
that Kennedy was assassinated.
I mean, he wasn't upset.
>>WALDRON: He wasn't upset.
And I do want to point this out.
He liked JFK.
By '63 he liked JFK.
They had been enemies
for the '60 election.
>>NOORY: Oh yeah, they were.
>>WALDRON: They rivals.
>>NOORY: And he was named VP
only because he needed Texas.
>>WALDRON: Right.
But by '63, LBJ had
treated him pretty well.
Lyndon Johnson did
hate Robert Kennedy.
He hated Robert
Kennedy with a passion.
So under JFK, Robert Kennedy
basically ran Cuban operations.
And then when LBJ
becomes president
and he finds out
about the coup plan
and eventually he finds out
about the CIA Mafia plots,
he shuts all that stuff down.
>>NOORY: And by then, we're
too entrenched in Vietnam.
It was a disaster.
>>WALDRON: Well, and
it goes beyond that.
LBJ actually said
Bobby made an attempt
to get Lyndon
Johnson to continue
the coup plan with
the number three,
the head of the Cuban army,
Commander [INAUDIBLE] in Cuba
in January of '63.
And he meets with Robert
Kennedy and another one
of the Cuban exile leaders
that was part of the coup plan.
And Lyndon basically
says, look, I'm
not going to have
another Bay of Pigs
in the first couple of
months of my administration.
And Lyndon Johnson
decides then, I'm
going to just keep
hands off Cuba,
and I'm going to make
my stand in Vietnam.
So when the Gulf of
Tonkin incident happens,
which wasn't a set-up,
but LBJ was basically
looking for an excuse to
greatly expand our role.
Because he couldn't
do it with Cuba.
>>NOORY: Well, it may
not have been a set-up,
but it may have been
magnified a little bit.
>>WALDRON: Oh, tremendously.
Like I say, he was
looking for an excuse,
and he was given that excuse.
And then within a few days,
they realized they had,
like you said,
magnified, overreacted.
But by then, he had what
he wanted, and he thought,
hey, we'd be wrapped up in
Vietnam in a couple of years.
>>NOORY: In 30 seconds,
the files we have not seen
on the Kennedy assassination--
>>WALDRON: And there
are hundreds of files.
>>NOORY: What might they be?
>>WALDRON: They are Naval
Intelligence, surveillance
on Oswald from the time he
came back from the Soviet Union
through the day of the
assassination, the secret Naval
Intelligence Marine
investigation of Oswald that
cleared Oswald of any role in
the assassination, the fact
that Oswald was a US
intelligence asset when he went
there, Carlos Marcello
in federal prison in 1985
talking about Oswald,
talking about Ruby,
how they were working for
him and that he secretly
owned Jack Ruby's club, all
the stuff about the CIA Mafia
plots, more about
the confessions.
So just think of all
those tapes of Marcello
talking to a trusted FBI
informant about Oswald and Ruby
and David Ferrie
and so much more.
We don't have those tapes.
We should.
The law says we
should have those.
And your viewers,
you've just got
to lean on your members of
Congress and the Senate to say,
hey, a law was passed,
the JFK Act in 1992
to release all the files.
A few files were allowed to
be kept secret till 2017.
It's going to be 2017.
They released the lists of the
files they're going to release,
all the most important files
about the Tampa attempt.
We have nothing.
>>NOORY: Well, I've got to tell
you, it's the end of Camelot,
wasn't it?
>>WALDRON: Totally the
end of Camelot, but like I
say, your viewers,
if they'll press
their members of Congress,
maybe we can get those files
so you and I can get to read
them and know everything
finally.
>>NOORY: "The Hidden History
of the JFK Assassination."
Lamar, thanks for being
on "Beyond Belief."
Appreciate that.
>>WALDRON: George,
great to be with you.
>>NOORY: A subject matter
that literally will never die,
the assassination of our
president back in 1963.
It continues to haunt us today.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]